Now, that you've built a robot modeling gazebo and included it in a word Scene,
let's write a C++ plugin to interact with this word.
The aim is to print the hello world message as soon as the word is located in gazebo.
First, create a script folder in myrobot directory to store the C++ code.
Navigate to myrobot, create the script directory,
then enter the script directory,
and create a hello.cpp file.
Inside hello.cpp, you need to write the plugin code to interact with
the gazebo that will print the hello world message as soon as the simulation starts.
Let's break it down into sections.
First, with include, you're including
a core set of basic gazebo functions to use in your code.
Then, you are creating a plugin,
WorldPluginMyRobot class that inherits from the gazebo WorldPlugin class.
This class offers multiple functions and variables,
but we'll be only using the constructor and one of the functions.
Inside the constructor of this class,
we are printing the hello world statement.
The load function is mandatory and should always be included,
as it receives information from the world file.
The last step is to register the plugin with the simulator.
To manage and build the C++ code effectively,
you should compile it with CMake.
CMake takes a CMake list.txt file as input.
This text file describe to CMake how to build the code,
where to install it,
add, and link libraries to it.
Back to myrobot directory,
create the CMake list.txt file.
Inside this file, paste the following instructions.
The first line of code defines the minimum required version of CMake.
Then, the text file is instructing CMake which directories to include and link to.
Next, you'll have to build the code.
To do so, create a build directory, navigate to it,
and now build the code with CMake, and make.
Note that you might get errors if your system is not up to date.
Then, you will have to add the library path to the gazebo plugin path.
Use the export command in the terminal.
You still have to include this plugin file in your world file.
So, navigate to the world directory and open the world file.
Inside the world file,
write a single line of code to include the plugin file.
Finally, launch the world file in gazebo,
and see if the plugin works.
Here, you can see the hello world message printed in a terminal,
which proves that the plugin is successfully
capable of interacting with the world rebuilt.